Dealing with DB Corruption
**************************

Ok.  Your database won’t come up.

If you are reading this, then likely the scenerio is one of the
following:

1. The mush says it can’t find your database files.

2. The mush says it can’t read or load your database files.

3. The mush seems to load fine but I can’t log in anyone and when I do
   all the names and attributes of things seem to be gone!

4. Bringing up your mail database

First thing is first.  Don’t have a panic attack.


If the mush says it can’t find your database files
==================================================


Check the names of the database files in your ‘data’ directory
--------------------------------------------------------------

They should be named something like: netrhost.db netrhost.db.old
netrhost.db.old.prev netrhost.gdbm.dir netrhost.gdbm.pag

And you may see a netrhost.db.flat


Check your netrhost.conf file
-----------------------------

If you never touched the >>*<<database or muddb_name params, you
should be good.

Verify your >>*<<database params (and muddb_name) are still set to
‘netrhost’ as part of the name.  Ergo, the default values and you
didn’t change them. These should match up with the filenames in your
data directory.

If these names do not match up, it can’t find the database files to
load. So you shouldn’t have to change these names, ever. :)


Check your mush.config file
---------------------------

If you never modified this file, you should be good.

The gamename should be ‘netrhost’ for this file.  This does NOT
control the name of your game.  This controls the name of all the
files as associated to the mush.  So changing this means the
netrhost.conf file, all your database files, and so forth.  Please
don’t change this :)


If the mush says it can’t read or load your database files
==========================================================

Double check everything for the previous issue. Make sure everything
is named properly.


Verify you have enough disk space. (quota)
------------------------------------------

Some account have a limited quota to run in.  If you reached or exceed
your disk quota, you can have a corrupted database.  So always keep
your eye on the size.  quota -s to see a human readable format to see
how much quota you have left.  You want to make sure current in use is
below the ‘grace’ and soft/hard limits shown.  If not, you’re out of
space.

You will need to remove some files before you repair and bring up your
mush again.  Try to keep your quota at least 200 megs free to allow
plenty of wonderful growth space for the mush.


Verify you have enough disk space.  (system)
--------------------------------------------

The second way you can run out of disk space is by the filesystem
itself. do a df -h . in your ‘game’ directory’.  That is df -h
<period>. This will return how much disk space is being used and how
much remains. If it shows 100% used, you’re out of disk space and the
db is corrupt.

At this point, you’re pretty screwed.  You can see if anything exists
in your system to free up some space, but if the filesystem itself is
filled, reach out to the owner of the server and let them know. It’s a
much bigger deal than just your mush if that’s the case.

Until this issue is resolved, you can not repair and bring up your
mush. No disk to run the game.


If the mush seems to load fine but I can’t log in anyone and when I do all the names and attributes of things seem to be gone!
==============================================================================================================================

Ok, at this point you likely had your mush up when the physical server
went down hard.  Weither through an emergency shutdown or a physical
power outage, your db likely was brought down hard during a write, so
it left it in a corrupt state.  These things happen.  This is why we
always strongly request you make daily flatfile dumps.

So, to recover your database.


The bad news
------------

If you have no flatfile backup or never bothered with backups? I’m
sorry, at this point you’re SOA.  There’s no easy way to recover a
corrupted binary database.  If you absolutely need data out of it we
may be able to help you to piece meal things out of it, but otherwise
it’s a lost cause.  You’ll have to start over from scratch.  I’m
sorry.


The good news
-------------

If you made backups, or if the server had a normal shutdown, you
likely have a flatfile backup.  You will see a netrhost.db.flat in
either the ‘data’ directory or ‘prevflat’ directory.  That is your
manual flatfile backup.

If the server had a normal shutdown, you will see a file called
netrhost.db.TERMFLAT.  This is a scram-emergency db flatfile. It
attempts to write this at the time of server shutdown to hopefully
keep a clean backup in the case of issues since it identifies the
server is coming down hard.  Make sure if you plan to use the TERMFLAT
as your recovery flatfile that the very last line shows something like
** END OF DUMP >>**<<. That shows you had a successful backup.


Now, to restore your database?
------------------------------

Please refer to the file ‘README.DBLOADING’.


Bringing up your mail database
==============================

Your mail db may or may not come up at this point.


If after restoring main database your mail database works
---------------------------------------------------------

If your mail database came up and does not show
   ‘Mail: mail is currently off’ then you should be good to go.

Please issue: wmail/fix wmail/lfix

This will put your mail system in sync with your current database and
fix up any errors that may exist.  wmail/fix fixes the mail,
wmail/lfix loads in the fixes.


If after restoring main database your mail database does not work
-----------------------------------------------------------------

   If your mail database is not up and shows
      ‘Mail: mail is currently off’ then your mail db is currupt.

To fix your mail db please refer to file ‘README.MAILCANNOTLOAD’
