Textfiles for RhostMUSH
***********************

areghost.txt           - file player gets when autoregistration on
registered
   host.

autoreg.txt            - file player gets when autoregistration on
   non-registered host.

autoreg_include.txt    - file player receives in email when they
autoregister
   attached to login/passwd

badsite.txt            - file player gets when site is not allowed.
connect.txt            - file player gets when connect create_reg.txt
- file player gets when their site is register and they

   can’t create.

doorconf.txt           - file that is searched for information
regarding @door.
   *NOTE*  Need to mkindx doorconf.txt doorconf.indx for this file

down.txt               - file player gets when the mush has logins
disabled
   (@disable login)

error.txt              - the ‘Huh? (type help for help)’ messages.
   *NOTE*  Need to mkindx error.txt error.indx for this file

full.txt               - file player gets when the mush can’t have any
more
   players.

guest.txt              - file player gets when they connect as a
guest. help.txt               - your help file

   *NOTE*  Need to mkindx help.txt help.indx for this file

motd.txt               - your motd file news.txt               - your
news file

   *NOTE*  Need to mkindx news.txt news.indx for this file

newuser.txt            - file newly created players get when they
connect for
   the first time.

noguest.txt            - file player gets when they are not allowed to
connect
   to a guest.

plushelp.txt           - optional +help file. (needs compile time
option)
   *NOTE*  Need to mkindx plushelp.txt plushelp.indx for this file

quit.txt               - file player gets when they disconnect.
register.txt           - file player gets when the site is locked down
for

   registration.

wizhelp.txt            - your wizhelp file
   *NOTE*  Need to mkindx wizhelp.txt wizhelp.indx for this file

wizmotd.txt            - your wiz motd file


Textfile Frequently Asked Questions
===================================

Q:  How do I put color in these files? A1: Look at ansi.h and you need
to put the literal ASCII codes.

   They will look like: ^[[0m (for ANSI_NORMAL).  That’s <ESC>[

A2: You can enable ansi_txtfiles then use %c (or %x/%m) encoding
   for ansi, however you compiled your Rhost.

Q:  I want to design my own txt files to read in the mush. A:  Easy.
Design them like help.txt would be set up, mkindx the file,

   then you can access it via @dynhelp online.

Q:  Do I have to mkindx these files whenever I make changes? A:  Only
the ones that have ‘& ‘ index. (help.txt, wizhelp.txt, news.txt, etc)

Q:  Do I have to @readcache in the game whenever I make a change? A:
Only when you modify any of the files listed in README.TXTFILES.  Not
the ones

   you use with @dynhelp.

Q:  Can’t I just make code in the mush that then is used for these
silly txt files? A:  Absolutely.  Check ‘wizhelp file_object’.
