5. Database
***********


5.1. Loading an existing Database
=================================

To load in a previous database, you run the db_load script.

From the game directory you would type:

./db_load data/netrhost.gdbm yourflatfilehere data/netrhost.db.new

Note:

  You may also do: ./Startmush Then you just follow the prompts to
  load in your flatfile there.

If you wish to have #1’s password reset to ‘Nyctasia’ please add this
to the bottom of your netrhost.conf file:

newpass_god 777

The caveat is that you must not have any netrhost.db* or
netrhost.gdbm* files in your data directory prior to loading it in.
It’ll error out if previous files exist.  So you will need to move all
files that start with netrhost.db* and all files that start with
netrhost.gdbm* to another directory.

Your flatfile tends to be named ‘netrhost.db.flat’ which is in your
data directory.  You can, however, name your flatfile anything you
want and have it in any directory you want.

To make a flatfile in game, you just issue @dump/flat.  You can
specify a filename after it, otherwise it assumes the name
‘netrhost.db.flat’.


5.2. Converting a flatfile database for use in RhostMUSH
========================================================

In the ~/Server/convert directory there is a script called
‘doconvert.sh’

This script will convert most flatfiles from existing mush engines to
RhostMUSH.  The exception is PennMUSH 1.8.0 and later.  For this there
is a BETA converter penn18x_converter.tgz.  This is proven to work,
most of the time, with codebases between 1.8.0 and 1.8.2.  It has not
been fully vetted with the latest PennMUSH databases.  Our apologies.

To convert a non-pennmush game (or a pennmush 1.7.4 or earlier), you
first need a valid flatfile of the game you’re wanting to convert.
Please refer to the documentatation of the mush engine in question
(MUX, Penn 1.7, TM2/3) on how to do this.  Once you have it type:

./doconvert.sh FLATFILETOCONVERT FLATFILEOUTPUT

In this instance, FLATFILETOCONVERT will be the filename (with full
path) to the flatfile you are wishing to convert.

The FLATFILEOUTPUT is anyfilename you wish to name the RhostMUSH
converted flatfile.  I suggest netrhost_converted.db.flat so you know
by the name what it is.

Follow what it asks for and just let it do its thing.
