What FLAGS, TOGGLES, POWERS, DEPOWERS, and BITLEVELS mean in RhostMUSH
**********************************************************************


Flags
=====

Flags are pretty much exactly the same as any other mush.  It’s a flag
that you set or unset on a target which then enables/disables or
alters something that target can do.  There’s help on all the flags in
help and wizhelp.


Toggles
=======

Toggles were designed as a single point flag that immediately enables
or disables a set ability or condition, thus a ‘toggle’.  It works
exactly like a flag and was originally designed for two reasons.  To
distinguish from the multi-meaning of a ‘flag’, and because frankly we
ran out of flag space :)


@power
======

A power is similar to a power on other mushes, but unlike them, our
powers are multi-tier.  This means that they can be customized to
empower something at a given bitlevel.  You may empower something from
guildmaster up to councilor level.  There are some powers with a power
level of N/A meaning they are a toggle power granting an absolute
power level as specified in the help for that power. This requires the
INHERIT flag for non-players to inherit powers, however, a specific
object can be granted a power as well.


@depower
========

This is the anti-thesis of @power.  Also, depowers do not require
inheritance.  They also have priority over flags, toggles, and powers.
You can use depower to remove or lower abilities and control from a
target, even a full wizard (royalty) can be depowered.


Multi-tiered bitlevel systems
=============================

RhostMUSH offers a multi-tier bitlevel system.  They go in order of
presidence You do not have to use all these bits, only use what you
want.


ghod (#1) <bitlevel 7>
----------------------

This bitlevel can do everything.  Only those who you trust with
absolute power should have this.  Period.


Immortal(i) <Level 6> - Basically #1
------------------------------------

The only thing this bitlevel can not do is directly effect #1,
set/unset some internal flags/attributes, and set/unset the immortal
flag.  These players can do EVERYTHING else.  Treat this bit as you
would treat #1.  Only give it to those you know without a doubt you
can trust.

* Can do everything except set some internal flags, effect #1, and
  set/remove the immortal flag.


Royalty(W) <Level 5> - FULL wizbit level
----------------------------------------

This is your standard wizard.  They can do everything you’re used to
on other mushes that wizards can do.  In addition, they also override
all locks by default (this can be disabled), and they have an enhanced
wizcloaking ability (which also can be disabled).  They can also set
all the lower bitlevels.

* All things of Level 4 and lower

* Ability to set more flags: STOP, NOSTOP, FUBAR

* Ability to @attribute,

* Ability to WIZCLOAK


Councilor(a) <Level 4> - High wizbit level
------------------------------------------

This is your almost-but-not-quite wizard.  They have access to about
80% of the wizard commands.  This includes @nuke, @toad, @newpassword
and the like.  The only things they can’t do that wizards can is
cloak, override locks, and use some of the database manipulation tools
in wizhelp.

* All things of Level 3 and lower

* Ability to set more flags: NOCONNECT, WANDERER, FREE

* Ability to @nuke, @toad, @boot, @chownall, @dbck, @poor,
  @newpassword, @pcreate, slay


Architect(B) <Level 3> - Middle wizbit level
--------------------------------------------

This is your sub-wizard.  They still have the ability to control
anything their bitlevel and lower (including @chown, @destroy, etc)
but do not have any control of other players (like @nuke, @toad, etc)
but they can set the slave flag.  Otherwise, all things their level
and lower they can treat as if they owned it.

* All things of Level 2

* Ability to fully control and modify anything their level and lower
  (including @cloning, @destroying, etc)

* Ability to use @tel on anything their level and lower.

* Ability to bypass jump_ok rooms on anything their level & lower.

* Ability to set some restricted flags: SLAVE, NO_YELL

* Has infinite quota and money

* Able to give negative money (Steal)

* Able to @toggle the MONITOR


Guildmaster(g) <Level 2> - Lowest wizbit level
----------------------------------------------

This is the lowest wiz bit.  They only have moderate abilities. They
can examine/decompile anything their level and lower, they can
@guild/@quota people, and they have a few other minor abilities. They
don’t have free money however.

* Ability to access things remotely (long_fingers)

* Things are FREE for them in the queue.

* Can see dbref#’s of things their level and lower

* Can examine/decompile things their level and lower.

* Can set @quota/@guild on their level and lower.


Wanderer <bitlevel 0>
---------------------

This is a hinderance flag.  This flag is automatically set on new
players that are created (which can be disabled).  This flag stops the
player from creating/destroying any database information.   In effect
it stops them from any type of building type commands.  They still are
allowed to set/unset locks/attributes/etc though without hinderance.


Guest <bitlevel 0 as well>
--------------------------

This is a bigger hinderance flag.  By default all guests should be set
this.  This flag stops the player from ANY database manipulation along
with @teleporting, and many other advanced commands.  It’s extreamly
dehibilatating.


Altering bitlevels
==================

Please keep in mind each of these bitlevels can be tweeked with the
@admin parameters and with the @powers (accessable by royalty) or
@depowers (only by immortal and higher).
